thank you
how's everyone doing okay it's already
returning that was too fast
I was not expected cool so we are
solving a tune so let's start
today is December 11 2000 17 and this is
the ipfs now let's go
as usual like we invite everyone to add
items to the agenda and so please do now
link to the notes of the session I'm
going to post it here on zoom and you
can also see it on the issue on ipfs /
PM repo cool so I see we have three
items today and at demo let's go to the
first item Richard we ipfs key
measurement you go Richard can you can
you use your microphone working if I
speak can you him it Richard if you can
hear can either a thumbs up
perhaps alright - and maybe while you
try to figure if you can get your
microphone working we can like go to
another time in each other once again
well cool okay so let's go to the second
item ipfs clustered version zero three
one is out I'm guessing that actor or
Wyatt has a dis to D yeah just a quick
note released cluster today and there
you have the links to the changelog and
the captain are there
yeah just have a look it's just a quick
note that there's like a stable release
out and it's really studies that we are
running in the gateways to
you
we any questions for actor awesome okay
so yes definitely go check it out the
changelog and the captain all see what
was the latest additions and please
share feedback cool so let's go to the
next item on the agenda
it's a PFS purse well name pounds - yes
so that's me this saturday which is the
16 of the summer we would do the the
second ipfs barcelona meetup in a
different different place this one if
your co-star you can obviously come and
you can RSVP otherwise if your remote we
will have the IRC channel and I am gonna
do the same as I did last time to stream
everything and would be super
appreciated if you want to to
participate remotely and help answering
questions for people and things like
that so if you could align your time
zone with personal no time zone for that
day if you're in a different one that
would be very very cool and what we're
gonna do is basically hack on different
things there are a few projects that
people are working with and some people
are trying to do bug fixes to the
implementations we have or they work on
their completely unrelated projects but
they feel like the space is this good to
be in in general if you come there there
will be free food and training and
everything so if you will be very
welcome to join us if you have any
questions you can ask me now alright
otherwise there is a ipfs - barcelona
channel on freenode where you can join
if you want to participate I will put
all announcements and stuff there
all right sweet thank you for organizing
another meetup be here still need to get
on a train to get to one okay so an
excellent answer from you Victor Jensen
will have a new environment today right
so we have Jenkins for a while but
Jenkins from you know an unstable
environment and kind of leave be a
doctor where everything is synced on the
file system which turned out to be a
terrible idea for a performance so now
I've been working on a fully automatic
environment which from Caleb is better
which I am gonna migrate to today so I
know people had some issues during the
weekend with the go ipfs kills some
other bills so I'm probably gonna take
it offline in two or one hour or
something like that and it will be
offline for maybe an hour but then after
that hopefully every everything should
run fine so it's just our notice
sounds good question from me what is the
progress on migrating everything to
Jenkins I know there's a bunch of yards
can you can you sure yeah so I started
working on all that but the performance
issues cannot put a step of taking the
wheels for that effort and we also have
to figure out how we can because right
now all the piers I do I verify every
single CI mr1 which works fine for
circle CR but the queuing of is it's a
bit known and it's gonna be longer when
we do more piers
so we're gonna have to talk about how we
can how we can move forward with Travis
specifically otherwise as soon as I
deployed the new environment I will
continue through more ports to update
everything everywhere sounds good so
what's working you is because you wait
for all the sea ice to be green to
actually merge yeah that that is a safe
thing to do audio like if master is
going and actually then touch the Travis
something then like you don't have to
wait for Travis it would be just like a
profession sir but if you can like trust
that's changing like am a Jenkins config
doesn't affect struggles at all should
work fine yeah the the trouble comes
under is like a minor modification to
the Travis because we still haven't we
don't have the same service file
everywhere which we should and then I
have to wait for it to pass before
merging got it
what about Jessica fess like is there a
way to prioritize like the main repos
that people use like Jessica immersive
yeah I just happy first jess multi ash
which is like a hundred bullets module
that's used a lot yeah no I don't I
don't see a problem with we're doing up
the
reason why I started with the small
breakfast was because it was on those
lists basically but I add right after
defining the environment cycle storage
working from the soap rather than from
the bottom sounds good
okay that's all for me if anyone else
any other question
all right Thank You Victor so back again
to ipfs key management Richard is your
microphone working now yes
oh can you hear me
yeah perfectly excellent so I've been
looking at IPS encryption for the last
couple of weeks which is leading into
the first thing is really key management
I think Warren said someplace in one of
the PRS you can't have encryption
without super um key management so
that's what I've been looking at right
now why are you sleeping put up a
proposal for about full commands in IPS
for key management basically create
regain updated cetera I'm trying to
follow the pkcs standards if anybody so
I'm familiar with them yes yeah yeah and
right now on we're trying to encrypt all
our keys at rest so nobody can break
into them and looking into what's
required into lid p2p crypto we have to
enhance it for pkcs support
awesome what about that so I've been
following all of those pr's and comments
on issues is there anything that people
can like do to help you to follow this
discussion or is there a Kenny Walker at
this moment do you need to get salt
there's one thing that has to get solved
is how to actually exchange the keys
okay because we have to assume in a
distributed environment where machines
are not all continuously online how do
we really do a key exchange I clip those
stuff so that only on the intended
recipient can read the key but how do
they get it and how do they ask for the
key so what I would do is you can you
should make sure they're both online so
you can it's fine to require that
they're both online for a key exchange
and then you'd have to open some new lib
p2p stream or something well I guess we
can discuss this new issue some more but
open a stream between them and then just
transfer the key yeah I was wondering if
this is more of a general issue like you
want to be able to raise a task with
somebody with another peer and get a
response so what about it too much I
figure they can do sneakernet
right now right they can definitely use
secret right now but uh yeah I think I
think you probably probably can add in
like this doesn't need to be happen soon
but we can just add in a open open the
connection to the Perth to the peer send
the file they say that encrypted and oh
yeah yeah I just thought up I raised it
cuz yeah it
it's not urgent there are workarounds
but I think it it's sort of pointing
towards a bigger issue on how to peers
can exchange information directly what
do you mean well isn't there a need for
two peers to talk to each other directly
in exchange information such as right
there and so calendars you can easily do
that you just like literally call you
know host dot new stream with a PID and
it'll give you a connection directly to
them okay yeah yeah so on the on the IP
that's not object there's the host thing
which is like the interface to all the
network stuff and on that if you just
call dot new stream and you give the
idea the peer you want to talk to and
the protocol name you want to talk to
them on it will give you a new stream
and that though then that receive with a
given handler I'll look into it in that
side yeah yeah if I'm a came in like so
from the comment the issues that you
have created and from what I could
understand
so what ipfs offers today by default is
that like communications between peers
are encrypted always an authenticated
while i professorson do by default or
there's an even I offer primitive for
that is encrypt the content and then
send the content to specific peers so
that they are the only ones that can
decrypt that content so that will be
like encryption of the content at rest
and there is like what is missing for I
think your use case but maybe I don't
understand it fully so you know what's
perhaps like for this one issue like on
your IPS encryption repo and make sure
that we are targeting bodies that beyond
me here and that we don't repeat
something that's over there
agree I was emphasized review is always
excellent awesome
the other issue I have is as you're
where David is that there's going to be
some crypto war that's required in live
p2p crypto mm-hmm I'm just concerned
it's it's a lot to work and right now
I'm using a package I'm not too happy
with node forts neither you at least it
gives me the primitives I need to to do
things I would like to go forward so I
can get the key management and the
encryption done using this package which
is only referenced in the keychain
library and and then go and look at the
p2p crypto and move everything in there
that we need absolutely and until note
Forge is an amazing package because it
has a wolf one of the first of its kind
it has a lot of critter primitives the
main issue in node Forge it was like
built using AMD so it's not using common
J's nor ACMA script six modules which
makes it really hard to import squash
require into a node GS or browser
project today
essentially it's working now I have it
running in a browser
I mean agar test so yeah but like it
brings out a truckload of codes with it
hi are you agree it's a big ko package
but so is crypto true but like ideally
what we should target is just like
extract the pieces like the function
calls that you actually okay I'm not
sure if that's the case but but maybe we
can evaluate then I know that the node
first team also wanted to moralize the
node forge package yeah
and there's other packages out there too
that we can take a look at oh hey I'm
not a big fan of no for it it's just
it's doing what I need all right well
yeah we used it in the best like the
first version the first six months or
eight months of just ipfs we used it and
then essentially we phased it out
because it was such a huge beast to
carry with us at all times but yeah well
I identify exactly what we need like
what's make sure that we understand if
it takes weeks for maybe a couple of
days just like the refactor the code
that we need or also chat with a note
for team to see if they are interested
on like modularizing
module right now this one question right
now technical question and no reply
after a week yeah maybe good for the
project team
yeah I'm not sure about the state of the
project well let's figure out maybe it's
all done with even more maybe like they
are just busy maybe they prefer to be
contacted through email or some other
medium let's figure that out all right
so so yeah let's make sure to like
follow on all of these through issues
and yeah thank you for bringing this up
and for pushing for it thank you so
let's go back to general is there any
other question on key management or any
other comments that want to make okay I
don't see any hands all right I'll
continue so let's go into demos so that
it's one is from widel a quick update on
IP cos companion I'm really excited
yeah so it's a very quick update I just
I just like it's the first update after
Firefox 57 five box quantum and I guess
I'll just maybe
show my screen quickly and just go over
those talking points I want to just
quickly yeah so I previous companion is
doing well we've went and got accepted
at the Mozilla store we've also had the
first feedback from Mozilla team first
serious feedback after web extensions
became the default and legacy extension
stopped working in Firefox the first
well maybe I'll just go this is like our
extensions in Mozilla store and we've
got somewhere between 500 and 600 it
varies but usually we've got like quite
a nice user base and if we look at the
statistics it's slowly growing we can
usually see when there's like talk or
maybe a meet-up
where someone presents ipfs there's
usually a lot of downloads in one day
and most of our users is on latest
Firefox all the platforms this like
those stats are kind of junky sometimes
but give us good feedback about the
direction we are going through and
that's a better channel when we usually
publish a new version every week or
maybe more often if there's like change
that we want to smoke test this can be
installed instead of the stable version
and
can switch between beta and release
versions if you will find that the beta
version is not up to par with quality or
so if you experience some kind of a bug
he would just report it and switch to
the standard one until you fix it and
what we've created I think since my last
demo is the translation project we've
got some interesting transact
translations usually nearly 100% and if
anyone finds that his or her native
language is missing or maybe you want to
go over all the already existing
translations and approve them there's
like a special role of language
maintainer on this crowd crowding tool
we are using and just let me know sent
an email or create a ticket on github
that you want to maintain a language and
that way you will have like more more
rights you could select which
translation is better if there are
multiple competing ones and stuff like
that and yeah going back to the list the
most important thing that we addressed
was
oh yeah yeah the most important issue
with others in recent weeks were
reproducible builds or deterministic
builds what it means is that Mozilla
asked us to provide source code and
instructions on how to build exactly the
same browser bundle that we are
packaging and publishing to the store we
had some issues with browser if I'd
dependencies such as such like JSI PFS
api and infidels so we switch to we
switch to browse verifying entire
extension thanks to great help from all
right and so far we've released the
version using this new built pipeline
and so far so good
seems that most delays please so this
one is kind of another code development
here and the most exciting thing that I
wanted to talk today is that all I and
Alan are I don't think are there present
on this call but they will probably
present this at some point in future I
just want to teach you a little bit they
are working on integration with brave
browser what we want to do is to reuse
ipfs companion codebase we've got like a
lot of boilerplate and background code
that can be very useful and is reused in
other browsers even in browsers that do
not support web extension api's to the
same extent that firefox and chrome are
supporting them right now and as you can
see
each one's the current version runs but
that's not not all what we are planning
to do all is working in in a working
progress for requests what we wanted to
do is to leverage the more liberal
security model of brave browser and we
want to let brave browser users to run
jas ipfs embedded in the browser so what
we wanted to do is to provide a switch
that lets users to select if they wanted
to run the old version which i which is
like external demon so usually go ipfs
or if user wants to run embedded pure
javascript note within the browser and
there will be like probably some kind of
nice UI for that i'm not sure if we got
the screenshot for that maybe not there
is a gift in one of the PR so yeah
exactly that's what I'm hunting for if
you scroll down yeah good one oh yeah oh
maybe this one yeah so that's the plan
we'll probably have a like this switch
the great thing is that we agreed that
we want to maintain a single code base
and we want to reuse as much as we can
and the brave specific or let's say
Firefox specific code will be in a
module on maybe it will be up behind the
check box or maybe it will be
automatically hidden or shown on the
specific browser that enables us to
provide additional functionality this
embedded feature will be under brave but
I think this is a great demonstration
for
let's say we when we talk with muscle at
some point it's a great illustration of
what we want to do in mainstream browser
and it's great of of concept and if
someone wants to run it in the browser
natively they can just install brave
it's not ready yet
it's just a teaser but it's the
direction we are working towards and
there will be much coming soon
right and I hope we'll have another team
demo probably all I will show you
something when it's fully baked so I
think that's all I just wanted to update
you that the IP first companion is is
gaining some speed and we'll have a
separate initiative to like create a
nexus between web UI ipfs companion and
ipfs station what we want to is to
provide like a single visual language so
all free looks like will look like the
same the same application may be like
parts from the same ecosystem and we
will hope to provide a tighter
integration between them so there will
be features I imagine in web UI that you
will open from within station or ipfs
companion those things will happen in in
following quarters ice cream so just
keep looking at the FS combined I guess
[Music]
this is awesome thank you so much for
demo so much cool stuff so much forward
a-and why don't was being a ball there
like there's a lot of staff that like
are in PR so you have to stitch things
together but they actually work pretty
well and you can like switch between
both nodes and like enable certain
features drag and drop files into the
extension and then shared
it's really cool and like as I have said
if you install a PFS station and the
extent is really nice I like running and
the other I get that in the other one
and I connecting and I seen IPs at all
over the place
we nice to us cool so I saw one hand at
least from Richard but I like watching
for strength maybe there's more hands I
read Richard really great tool like ooh
I have to keep on updating it all the
time or can it just update itself how it
updates itself if you install it from
the if you are using Firefox of you if
you are using Chrome you just install it
and it automatically will update when
the latest version is I'm running Chrome
and it seems to be just running a copy
that's about a week so old
yeah yeah so what we do in chrome is
that there is no like developer channel
so if you are using Chrome you will
always have the the release version
which is the most stable and polished
and under Firefox you have a like
possibility to to choose between a
release version and the developer beta
version so development and beta versions
will update more frequently but at some
point when we will stab you lie when it
will be stable enough there will be a
full release told that crumbs or also
just be patient I guess no use Firefox
all use firefox yeah yeah all right
thank you any other questions comments
ideas high five oh okay okay lots of
high fives right Oh Ollie and Allen
which could not attend today plus up
really great work thank you so much for
the update so uh ahem now Peter was a
question I thought II the in ipfs
companion when they switched between the
Gateway and the embedded node so see
embedded node means that the node is
embedded in the page for those that just
mean that it's a genius idea first node
running in braids yeah that that's like
the browser extension has something
called a background page and it's like a
hidden page that you can run JavaScript
on and it's always running when your
browser is running yeah and in brave our
goal is to run jeaious ipfs node in that
page so tell me so my question is more
about if the node is being exposed to
the page rather than where the node is
being wrong because I don't know like
like meta mask is embedding web 3 for
example in the pages of a Content script
and for the window object is not what is
happening no no no that's a separate
thing this background page is in
different namespace it's like a separate
sandbox it does not have direct access
to your pages there are api's that lets
you to introdu
introduce communication between
background pages and scripts in your
tabs but that's not something we will
introduce at least not initially we need
some
of access control if you want to expose
local node to the to the JavaScript
running in taps that's like a separate
separate discussion and I think we'll
until we've got like some token based
authorization with probably won't risk
exposing it or maybe we'll expose only
read-only API that's a prediction
alright there are no more hands so I
guess this is it
we reach the end of the meeting tato
there's a hand